This repository provides a pipeline for data analysis, data cleaning, and features extraction that can be applied to a range of smartphone and wearable datasets. It is designed to be converted into a jupyter book once the pipeline is complete, with each jupyter notebook becoming a `chapter` of the book that records the data analysis results, code used, and decisions made for one specific type of data. See instructions for converting to a jupyter book here: https://jupyterbook.org/

This repository includes a template (general_template.ipynb) which gives a step by step method for processing the raw data, ranging from data analysis to feature extraction. The data analysis includes three main steps that are helpful for all data types, as well as additional steps that will be useful for certain types of data. The cleaning and feature extraction stage includes a function to create minutely, hourly or daily features from the raw data and also save a cleaned version of the raw data. For all data types, the features produced include 'metadata features' that describe the quality/amount of the data for that interval. These can be useful either to determine whether or not each interval should be classed as 'missing data' during subsequent data processing, or possibly as a direct input to a machine learning model trained on the data.

In addition to the general template, three other templates are provided for specific types of data; step count, sleep, and heart rate. These help to illustrate how the functions provided can be applied (and sometimes adjusted) to different data types, and suggest additional analyses that may be useful for each data type. We have tried to make these templates as general as possible within these data types, but further tailoring may be required for specific datasets.

Each of the templates are given as a jupyter notebook. These call functions that are defined in the .py files. The other files in this repository are all required files for the construction of a jupyter book.

The general template gives detail into the data analysis, data cleaning, and feature extraction functions used, so should be read first. The data type specific templates can then be used as guides to build pipelines for those specific types of data. Although only three data type specific function are currently given, the general template is intended to be tailorable to a wide range of data types, possibly with some additional specialised analyses needing to be added in some cases.
